difference between window object and document object

Introduction :-
    The Window Object=>
    It represents the browser's window. All global JavaScript objects,functions, and variables
    automatically become members of the window object.Global variables are properties of the window object.
    Global functions are methods of the window object or Browser Object Model(BOM).

    The Document Object=>
    When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page
    The HTML DOM model is constructed as a tree of Objects:
                                (HTML, HEAD, BODY, and other HTML tags)
    It is the root element that represents the html document
    Document=>RootElement(HTML)=>Head(Element)=>Body(Element)(Attributr=>Text=>Title)

Window Object Model(BOM) :-
    i.  It is the top most object and outermost element of the object hierarchy

    ii. The window object represents a window/tab containing a DOM document

    iii. where as document object is property of window object that points to 
            the DOM document loaded in that window

    iv.  You can access a document object either using window.document property or
         or using document object directly as window is global object. In the below example, 
        title is the property of document object
                    ex: window.document.title
    
    v.  The other major difference is that both window object and document object have properties and methods
        Few method names are same in both objects but with different behavior
                    ex: window.open() opens a new tab
    
    vi. Screen is the window property that holds information of browser screen. It refers to screen object
        associated with that window object. Used to display screen width, height, colorDepth, pixelDepth etc...
                    ex: window.screen.height
        
        Even the document object (of the HTML DOM) is a property of the window object:
                    window.document.getElementById("header");

Document Object Model(DOM):-
    i.  Each HTML document that gets loaded into a window becomes a document object.

    ii. The document contains the contents of the page. Using document object, JavaScript can modify,
         add and delete the HTML elements, attributes CSS styles in the page.

    iii. document object is property of window object that points to the DOM document loaded in that window.
                        ex: title is the property of document object
                    Title is the property of document object

    iv.  Both DOM and BOM have properties and Methods same but different behaviour      
                        ex: document.open() 
                    creates a blank document within the window.

    v.  Similar to document screen can be accessed either by window.screen or screen object directly.
        Screen object doesn't have any methods as in window and document objects.

    Even the document object (of the HTML DOM) is a property of the window object is the same as:
                    document.getElementById("header");

  
